We had been appointed on trouble one.
I met him before that.
I believe that he had come over to our hearing on September 28 and before the appointment.
Mr. Steven told us that Mr. Adams was going to be appointed and would be working with
our committee.
But in any event, during the first few days of October, while we were having in the
employee that led us at the Secret Rade All Laboratory, concerning when we had information
of communist affiliation, association with communist spies, removal of documents, things
of that kind, Mr. Adams came up to New York and sat in on those interrogations.
We were.
Now, if anything, did Mr. Adams stay?
Well, Mr. Adams, I might say that we became friendly, Mr. Carr and I, and the other
staff members.
They came suddenly with Mr. Adams.
He would go out for lunch with us and there was a very cordial and pleasant relationship.
We, Mr. Adams, we discussed the witnesses and the hearings and the whole situation and we
discussed Mr. Adams in a job.
And the notifications, Mr. Adams made it clear to us that he would be very appreciative
if we could find some way of avoiding any kind of hearings.
Executive will public or anything else on the situation of communist infiltration at the
Army Secret Rade All Laboratory at Club Monk.
He, somewhere, his objections, Mr. Cummings.
Well, sir, it wasn't so much a question of objection.
He just wanted to know if we could avoid some way of doing it.
He thought that if we could such an arrangement with the a lot more agreeable to Mr. Steven
and that it was solidified, Mr. Adams, who had just been appointed in his new position.
He thought that if some way to see worked out of avoiding the Chuck Committee going into
this and letting the Army go into it on the basis of such committee information, it would
be a more pleasant arrangement to Mr. Steven's and former director.
Mr. Adams, can you specifically for what purpose he had been employed?
For what principle purpose he had been employed in the Secretary of the Army?
He had been employed at Council, but he told us that Mr. Steven had given him as his first
and most important assignment, working, observing the committee hearing and working on this
fortnight missed investigation.
Later on, I'll see you at that time, Mr. Cohn.
Mr. Steven, desire that you discontinue your investigation at Fort Monmouth and turn his
back to the Army.
He does not make a direct request, Mr. Jack, and he made it clear to us that if some way
could be found to have the such committee not hold hearings, but let Mr. Adams and Mr.
Steven still the job, that would be welcome, those to Mr. Steven's and the draft.
Either not to exceed to that to where we say inference that you grew from, what he said,
not so far too resourceful.
I had no authority in need of Mr. Cohn, any other staff member to exceed to that, Mr.
Chairman.
Had made the decision and it was not enough how to reverse that decision.
The second point is we could see no basis in fact for even making a recommendation to the
chairman on that for this reason, Mr. Jenkins.
This situation had existed for a long time.
The infiltration by people with record of funding of defoliation in the Secret Army
rate, I'll have it for you to Fort Monmouth.
The FBI has been wanting about it for years.
Prior to Mr. Steven's administration and during Mr. Steven's administration.
And it looked pretty much like one of those situations where action was being taken
to be caused.
Our committee was investigating and where if we stop, the action might very well stop.
Mr. Cohn had or not the army at that time that is in the first week of October 53.
Done anything whatsoever to your knowledge by way of concentrating its efforts in pinpointing
the existence of the birthdays of Fort Monmouth?
Yes, after our conversations with Mr. Steven in the middle of September, there were, I think
Mr. Steven said five or six suspensions found the secret rate all over the fort lineman
on the ground of security risk charges and communist affiliation charges.
And I have no reason to follow with that.
And the Army then, you bring about a prior to your meeting with Mr. Steven's on September
16th.
As far as I know, it had not.
I think Mr. Steven's charge shows that one person has been suspended in order.
Now, chronologically, was your next contact to the one who was the first week of October
with Miss Adams?
Was it with Miss Adams or was it with the Secretary of the Army?
Well, sir, it was with Mr. Adams.
He was there, I believe, more than one day.
I think he was there two or three days, or maybe more than that.
He would be in on the session when he wasn't there, his assistant would be there.
And he would keep right on talking to us and a topic of discussion on his part was, could
we arrive at some formula, which he could tell the statements about whereby the smithy
would foul out and left the army, conduct the investigations of those conversations with
Mr. Adams, continued on.
They came a time a few days later when the full pricing from that, do I understand you
just say that he said that the Secretary would be happier about it and that it would solidify
him with the Secretary if his desire for it to get to...
He made a clear that Secretary would be happy about.
I don't think he said solidify him with the Secretary.
I think he said it was the effect that it would be of feather in his cap and his new job
if he could accomplish six.
And I would...
He said it was his element of conversation with Mr. Adams.
He said he was a short time there, I think.
Yes.
Well, this same line of conversation continued pretty much from that point on for a period
of months.
The next development was, as we called in and talked to, more and more of these people who were
working in the secret radar laboratory to pull up mud myths.
And as we saw, a lot of the security situation was what the record of some of these people might
see.
And the fact that no action had been taken, I communicated with Senator McCarty.
By shortwave radio, I flew down and I met him at West Palm Beach.
He was in Unnihlin.
He came in.
I met him at West Palm Beach.
I think I saw some of the transcripts of testimony down with me.
I told him that there had been a few suspensions, but that there were still a size of a number
of people working in the secret radar laboratory at Fort Mudmouth with records of communists
of aviation to a greater or lesser degree.
And the deal was the extremely sensitive work and anti-aircraft defense and radar activity
being done there.
I thought and the staff thought that the situation was serious enough to add Senator McCarty to
come back and start holding formal executive sessions right away.
Did we understand that the Senator was in on these honeymoon?
He had been through yet.
And if Senator McCarty has a result of you're going to West Palm Beach and having a conversation
with him return to Washington, on New York, above.
He did.
I met him on a Friday, Mr. McCarty at West Palm Beach.
He flew to Wisconsin for Saturday and Sunday.
And on Monday, he was in New York to hold here.
And we're hearing a call, they were.
Was Mr. Adam Smith?
I told me call with Mr. Adams was there on Monday.
I think Monday was the 12th and I'm not sure that.
I know that on the second day, both Mr. Adam and Mrs. Seenan arrived on the scene.
Now, that's October 13th.
I believe that's the October 13th there.
I want you to go with the meeting Mr. Cohen, how to cut on October 13th in New York City.
And particularly with respect to anything that was said or done, having relevant issues
against Mr. Stevens and Mr. Adler.
Well, having relevant to start through the facts that they replaced Mr. Seenan and Mr.
Adam Siree Clawis came up to New York and came over to an executive session of the
subcommittee on the morning of the 13th.
That is the exact date.
Face-out in during the testimony, I believe that a couple of current employees, that the
secret radar laboratory, the Float Line, have testified, a couple of former employees
and folks have said some amendments about S, B, N, I, and sabotage and things of that
kind.
It was a bad situation.
And Mr. Seenan and Mr. Adam heard that testimony.
While they were there on that day, and during the lunch hour when we went over and had lunch
with them, Mr. Seenan and Mr. Adam raised with Senator McCoffee the question of whether
or not we had to have hearings whether we had to continue with them when the investigation
was going to stop.
And wasn't there some way that Mr. Seenan and Mr. Adam could get us to stop and let
Mr. Seenan and Mr. Adam show this to themselves?
At that time, the second day, our executive attorney, Mr. Adam, complained about the time
of newspaper from this year that was following from these hearings, Mr. Clawis.
You mean to just that it was unfair and it was like, say, did not?
Obviously, it was this party?
Oh no, sir.
It's a matter of fact, Mr. Adam and Mr. Seenan, I believe, for men on and for men on,
I think prior to that time, I've been present in some of the sessions, I've been present
in some of the news conferences held.
After the sessions had not anticipated some of those news conferences, and I don't
recall of any suggestions of inaccuracy as to anything Senator McCoffee said ever being
made by Mr. Seenan or by Mr. Adam.
I think sir.
Well, this is a matter of fact, these are a number of the staffers that are going to
be used to the place any of the starting just our own faithful account of the proceedings
of those engaging.
So I'm sure we did not say.
We did not, I'm sure.
I'm sure you say there was no complaint about it.
There was none.
Mr. Clawis and Mr. King of the Bible, I would say, Mr. Clawis.
There was no complaint that I was our own Meyary.
I might say, Mr. Clawis, it was very clear that they did not like the fact that there
was Communist, there happened some Communist infiltration.
And that Senator McCoffee was suggesting that it should have been acted upon earlier.
They did not like the fact that thought was being publicized, but they made no statement
that any of the publicity was unfair.
I were in New York on October 13th, Mr. Cohn.
I want you to tell the committee whether or not to have a arrangement was made by Mr.
Stevens with a merchant's club, I would say he was a member with respect to the entertainment
and facilities of that club being a tender to Senator McCoffee and the members of his
club.
Father, Mr. Stevens, I want to say something.
Very, very, very kind and he offers to put the facilities and the merchants across to
which he belongs.
I have a dining room there and I want you to not be disfuzzled of the subcommittee and
instead every day during the time of our business of the New York on it.
And was that to be free of cost in so far as the Senator and members of his club?
And then there was no discussion about that, so I assume that was included in the offer.
And as I might say, I think certainly nothing wrong in the offer, Mr. Stevens was always
very courteous and very considerate.
Are you in the trap, I'm wearing a card on that, he said he's throwing that thing
wrong about it, whatever.
I think nothing wrong with that.
Did you agree yourself on these?
No, sir, we didn't.
I believe that when Mr. Stevens was present on the 13th, we had lunch with him there.
I think the next day, Mr. Stevens had left the floor lunch, but some of the generals
were there and Mr. Adams and we went over that day.
There was no room to spend the feast when we had lunch with Mr. Stevens there.
From the great majority of occasions, we ate over a cabinet restaurant right near Polys
there, in New York, we ate over there, not at the merchant's spot.
Now Mr. Coln, I want you to tell the committee to properly stay and to what degree Mr. Stevens
and Mr. Adams in the changing of the Christmas season.
To this continue your games with respect to Fort Monmouth and turn it over to the Army.
Yes, sir.
So there were something I would call infertuning Mr. Jenkins or anything like that.
There was a discussion in which Mr. Stevens and Mr. Adams made it very clear to send them
a car to the sooner we stopped investigating the Army, but better communists infiltration
of the Army, the better they would like.
And that would certainly be welcome to them personally if we were stuck.
They do not believe that they can be communists infiltration in the Army, particularly at Fort
Monmouth.
I was like denied by the...
Oh no, there was no doubt about it in the online or an online or anyone's mind.
Did you see a limb with the Coln that they were exerting too much pressure on you and the
senator?
Sir, I attached no special significance to that.
Most people whose departments or agencies are under investigation are not happy about
that fact and the son of the investigation is over, the better they like it.
And Mr. Stevens and Mr. Adams obviously were not personally pleased that what my piece
class is unfavorable results and unfavorable publicity from their standpoint and indications
that communists and communists infiltration had gone on and spared the department.
I assume it was personally embarrassing to a certain degree and that they wanted us
to stop.
I saw nothing unusual.
I just have to ask by other people before and why your work is that plain, vain proofs
and were you exposing him causing the suspension of subversives of Fort Monmouth?
Well, sir, I think that the record stands that before our committee started the record
was zero.
After our committee investigation, the record of suspension of people from the secret
radar laboratory stood at 35.
So I don't think they can be much dispute about results.
When Mr. Cohn was the next contact between the McCarthy Committee and the not-say-the-army
we say the second Mr. Adams.
So I wonder the other after all.
Sir, I want to say at this point, obviously I am leaving out here.
You and I have discussed matters which you were one who I know and the well-sinteraked me
about and close examination about the shine matter and about other conversations and discussions
I am trying to channel myself to the areas which you have outlined here and the other
correct about.
Yes sir.
On that, the next discussion was up to over the 14th, the very next day and one was up
to this session.
Well, sir, I got to go back to the 13th for one minute and tell you what Senate and
McCarthy's reaction was to the request or the discussion by Mr. Cohn and Mr. Adams
as to whether or not we could not end our investigation of communist infiltration and the
covering up of communist infiltration by the law senators say on the 13th, Mr. Cohn.
I remember that the senator went into some detail which I want to hear about our investigation
of the government's reting on and used that to illustrate the fact that just how long
it would be necessary for the committee to continue its investigation of communist infiltration
in the army, how it came about and who was responsible for it, would depend to a large
degree on the cooperation received from Mr. Cohn and Mr. Adams on the House cleaning
job which they themselves did not only in getting out communist and security risk but in
getting out the people who had allowed these communist and security risk to stay in the
sensitive post during a period of time.
I remember that the senator was there as well now and we investigated she gone forever
and the senator said of course it won't go on forever.
And the senator said we got other things to do so but happy to all be I can say.
What's the effect I am possible now to spend any kind of a time with him on it, we have
to see how things go, what results are obtained, what kind of a house cleaning job you people
do.
That was the substance of that conversation that shocked over 13.
I believe that was our 12th or 13th.
The day Mr. Davis had come up to talk to the senator.
Now we face the 14th of October.
Yes.
Well let's get to the committee what was said and on that occasion on that date by the
6th day of our Mr. Adams.
Well so there were two, well I was a very significant incident on the 14th of October.
We need to relay to his knowledge.
Yes.
First of all that's a physical presence.
Mr. Adams we had three sessions that day.
Morning, afternoon and night.
Mr. Stevens was present during part of the morning session.
He then left and went someplace else.
Mr. Adams I believe was present during four free executive sessions of the Sunday morning,
afternoon and night.
The two significant incidents Mr. Jenkins are the, and for the first one I have to go back
briefly to Aaron Coleman because that's what it was about.
As I told you, back in the spring we found that Aaron Coleman was still working in
the office.
We found from the public record that this Aaron Coleman had been a friend and associate
of a coffee convicted Adam Pai, Susan Rosenberg.
We had received reliable information that Aaron Coleman had participated in communist activity
along with Rosenberg and that this man was still at lunch.
Now, those are thoughts of the 14th we had found out something else too.
We had been told, reliably, that this same Aaron Coleman, the man who had been a friend
and associate of Rosenberg, gone to the, for the communist meeting with him, had taken
paper, documents, secret documents from the Army radar laboratory at Fort Manda while
occupying a very important sensitive post-air dealing with the secret radar anti-aircraft
culprit.
We have been told specifically Mr. Jenkins that one afternoon, a number of years before
Coleman, while leaving the laboratory, I believe some paper had flipped out from a pocket
in his coat.
That paper was retrieved by a security guard.
The guard looked at it and found it to be a secret or classified radar document.
The guard immediately reported to his superior that the fact that Mr. Coleman had a paper
dropped out of Mr. Coleman's pocket when he was leaving the laboratory and that paper turned
to be a secret document bearing on important radar work.
Was it those types of evidence to be true?
Yes, and it's important for dropping through an incident which took place on our 12th
14th and I'm going to try to slide that right in, Mr. Jenkins, go on.
Those types of things developed to be true.
I might set, well, the next step was this.
After the report was made to the security guard, picked up the document which dropped out
of Coleman's pocket as I recall it.
That might be wrong on a statement detailed.
Mr. Coleman, the security guard, went to his superior in the security and he too set up
at four months.
He told the chief security officer at four months that this man, Aaron Coleman, while
leaving the laboratory had apparently had on his surface a secret document.
The document had fallen out of his pocket and there it was.
The security officer then sent for Mr. Coleman and confronted him and said to him Mr. Coleman
Coleman, if Mr. Coleman stays back, that you have been removing from this laboratory secrets
radar documents and that after a whole with this very time you have put away, fed away
secret radar documents which you have taken from the laboratory.
The testimony under wrote before this committee by the security officer was the
security officer in authorizing a raid by Army intelligence officers on Coleman's home.
The raid took place there and in the course of that raid some 43 secrets and other lines
classified radar documents at his home denied for the investigation from the laboratory
to his home and that they were then in his home.
That's likely he retreated from his denial until he made enough of an admission.
So, one, the security officer in authorizing a raid by Army intelligence officers on Coleman's home.
The raid by radar documents was found in a bureau drawer in Coleman's home and not
by the way I believe according to Coleman's own admission to give a complete picture of the
advantage by this country and radar defense.
Also a certain period I believe that was in 1946.
That's it.
At that time, prior to in December these facts that come to our attention, we did not know
the facts.
We have reliable information.
Therefore, we went down physically to Portland and we had to see Aaron Coleman personnel file
which is available to us for any congressional committee.
Can you give the data that busy?
That was very early in our co-op.
I would say that was about October.
He was called October 14th, Col. 12th.
I say the third of course about cover.
We got it in one.
We went down to Portland and we had to see Coleman's personnel file.
I might say we were in title for this.
It was displayed to us by somebody under General Law and jurisdiction.
We went over that file, the lengthy file.
And in that file, we found documentary proof that what we have heard about Coleman taking
these documents from the secret laboratory to his home was true.
We found a report by Army Intelligence in the Coleman personnel file, corroborating the
facts which we had learned and indicating that Coleman in fact had been caught with these
documents and a bureau throw in his home during a raid by Army Intelligence.
We found a photo file that in Spider-Man and in Spider-Man we know that Coleman's close
relationship was out in Spider-Man and participated in communist activities to some degree with
the Soviet Rosenberg.
In Spider-Man through practice the Association of Rosenberg, the attendance of the communist
meaning and the taking of documents from the laboratory that Aaron Coleman had been allowed
to continue his work at Portland and was in fact still at Portland when our investigation
began.
We brought this to Jenkins that this was known for that we made a verb, say it in common,
we put a pair of papers and copied word for word, the document and the Coleman personnel
file were still these facts.
We then asked if we could take the file with those facts available at that time and have
been available to the Secretary of the Army.
Oh they were in an Army file?
They were.
Yes, of course they were available.
Now we first I believe that if we could take the file with us, they told us no, we couldn't
take the file with us because that would lead them without any record of the file.
So what would happen was they would have the file hold us down and trans-papy a
photocytic copy of the file transmitted to us through the Pentagon.
That was perfectly agreeable.
We didn't care whether we had the original paper or a photocytic copy.
So we copied out, we copied out, unbeknownst to them I believe, they were all there was
nothing wrong in it certainly.
We copied out the particular question of the file which shows that Coleman, Coleman had
been writing that the secret document is a thousand of your thoughts.
Did you come in contact with General Love and on Medicaid and Mr. Cohn?
I did not.
I came in contact with so members of General Love and the Department of General Love and
I believe and another gentleman who was in charge of the file and he had the same name
as somebody else in his case is later that you came in contact with General Love and
worked with you and me and you were investigating it and of course my members.
I had never met the General Love.
So the way that I say is that we have made this copy of that file out of the file which
is also very significant and they have promised to send us the photostat of the complete
file through the Pentagon.
Now that's really an October, you're talking about October.
Now sir, we kept trusting Mr. Adam for that file.
We told him we kept asking where is the photostat of this Coleman personnel file.
We needed it.
We needed to have it.
And we finally got it.
So I'm in through Adam.
I believe on the 15th of October, although it might have been prior to that.
But anyway sir, on the morning of the 14th of October, Aaron Coleman himself, while they witnessed
before the subcommittee.
At that time had you procured from the items that Cylon Coleman, we thought we had the file.
He gave us what's the photostat to be the file.
And I had that file in front of me.
I gave it over to Senator McCarty.
He was interrogating Coleman, questioning Coleman, under oath.
Mr. Stevens was sitting there and Mr. Adam was sitting there.
I remember that Senator McCarty turned to me.
First we covered the Rosenberg Coleman connection and Rosenberg's position at Fort
Month.
Senator McCarty then turned to me and said, would you take me that file?
I gave him a file and he had now shown me where the documents are that show that Coleman was
caught with secret radar documents in his column and that inside of that fact they let
him stay right on it for a month.
For a period of 40, usually 40 on documents.
I believe the number is 43.
Senator McCarty said, show me where it is in the file.
He was about to ask Coleman some questions about it.
I said it's in such a such a section and I pointed to where it was.
He kept going through and he said it's not here.
I kept saying it is there.
It must be there.
And he gave me the file and I remember there was a little bit of excitement until three staff members started
going through the file with a moment and one was so psyched through and each one had a lot of papers in it.
We kept going through that file and going through it and Senator McCarty kept saying where the
papers, where the papers, where the papers and we couldn't find them.
It had become rather embarrassing at that point and I went over to Mr. Adams and I said, John,
there's something wrong here.
Who had given you the file?
Zolly Colton, Mr. Adams has given us the odds or has come from Mr. Adams off.
I don't remember him personally handing his thoughts.
We got a lot of files from them.
They came from journals and somebody in his office for working under his control.
Anyway, I went over to Mr. Adams I think it was and some of the people working with him and I said,
there's something wrong here.
There's something missing from this file.
I was hurt so that there was nothing missing from the file.
One of the staff members, I think it was Jim.
You told my Jim, you knew.
I think it was Jim Julian.
He had been down at my list.
I think it was Jim who has made the copy of that paper we wanted from the file.
He went upstairs and he got his notes and he changed down with the verbatim copy of what has been in the file and we went, when we left, what that?
And there was.
I then took that over to some of the army people and I said, this paper was in the file.
When we saw the file, I said, for what one?
Would you please show me where it is now?
I think it was Mr. Adams.
Although I have no clear recollection.
You know, Mr. Adams was in the sectarian's land.
It was not in the sectarian's land.
It was either Mr. Adams.
Now, the army people did some coming through the file and they didn't look through it too long and then they said, well, it's not there.
Now, who said that?
I don't recall it.
Either Mr. Adams or one of his people.
Well, why did they say it wasn't there?
At that time, sir, I don't know what they did tell us why it wasn't there.
They said that they must have been in some of the states.
There must be something wrong, but it wasn't there.
They asked me if I was sure that the papers had originally been there. Could not be mistaken.
I saw them that I could not be mistaken.
Our 12th City having arrived, we were standing in each direction.
So, two blocks of traffic.
I have three copies of this.
Somebody's asking what I can give when to eat the wire services on the wall I have.
Well, I don't know.
Your self-served chairman, Mother Now, for the next session of the hearing will be at 2 p.m. this afternoon.